Okay, good morning folks. We are live.
Here's a plan, short stream today.
Going to look at the inferno model.
We'll do a couple other merge things.
And that's about it.
Okay, good. That's a full sweep.
That's a full completed sweep.
Hey Anish.
Her phone give up.
Yeah, link it to me Anish.
Just stick the link in the Discord. I'll
check as soon as I get this running.
Morning Matthew.
All right, here are logs. Let's hope we
get something good.
Ah, not great.
Wait, only 24 points?
Make any sense.
Really?
Oh, wait. No, I'm done.
Okay, we got another shot at this.
I unzipped incorrectly.
Okay, that's quite a bit better.
Ooh.
.83
We can repro this, right?
And then I'll look at your thing while
this trains Anish if you have it by
then.
How big is Paul?
Kind of chonker.
Chonky Paul I see.
Oh, that's super funny.
Hmm.
All right, I can definitely give some
Veloce some feedback on this.
Why are models
Uh, that's a tokenization thing, man.
The models are dumb for a lot of
reasons. That's not one of them.
>> What's your first impressions? I haven't
used it, dude. I don't care.
I'm chilling for a few days and I'm just
like doing some more science side stuff.
I don't need Otis to help me think about
science. I can just do that. Thank you.
Oh, I said I needed to help you with
your thing.
My bad. Um did you put it in the
Discord?
Turning to room.
Hyper takes overnight to train.
It doesn't, coder. It took overnight to
do 1,200 experiments.
I did 1,200 experiments overnight, full
hyperparameter sweep, and these were the
best hypers it found.
The actual best hyperparameter set that
it found only takes 6 or 7 minutes to
train, and I suspect this will get
faster cuz it's doing something weird
because of a bug in the simulation. It's
like working around a bug in the sim
right now cuz there's no reason to need
such a chunky policy.
Oh, yeah, speaking of which, if you
wanted to know, 13.9 mil were trained at
370 K SPS.
I think we can do way better than that,
though. I think it's got like small
batches and stuff as well.
Well, it's just a language model, dude.
They're just drumming up hype for their
own [__]
Like
And with the number of things you ask
about like the popular AI [__]
stuff, like I guarantee you if you spent
that time thinking about some of the
really cool science stuff, you'd have a
lot a lot of cool knowledge in this
space.
Like all this stuff you just scroll
through Twitter and read is just
[__]
Wait, 55?
Uh Ian Goodfellow has some decent stuff,
yeah.
GAN guy, right?
Yeah, yeah.
I'm trying to think.
Is he the nutty one? No, Socher's the
nutty one, right?
I actually don't know what the hell Ian
does
these days.
I don't know. I talked to Socher at one
of his events.
He's a cool dude.
Ian was all in that same
Like who did what?
Who did What was he did one of the big
NLP ones, right? One of the big original
NLP things.
I forget what his best paper is. I know
Ian's great is GANs.
It's been a while.
I like that I can actually just use this
thing,
you know?
It's so nice.
That's right.
Is GAN used nowadays?
Uh I don't know if the core the I don't
think that the exact architecture is.
Portions of it are, and it was widely
like a major major milestone in
unsupervised learning in general,
which is also all of language modeling
and all of especially image and video
models.
Arguably, it had more influence on
on image and video, though. I actually
don't know why that was, and I don't
know how that works in with diffusion
stuff. I think it's a precursor.
I don't know that space super well. When
I was um GANs were pretty much all there
was, and they were still pretty brittle
back when I did vision.
That was almost 10 years ago.
All right, my dude.
It's time for Inferno. Come on.
All right.
We're gaming.
Look at this.
Boom.
IP yard.
All right, I will watch it, Inish. This
is so [__] cool to me, this thing
here.
Look at that.
Did it miss? I think it splashed the
first barrage.
Yeah, it's way better at preserving
pillars. But just stands out in the
middle. This is like
And it flicks prayer, too.
It sort of flicks prayer.
That's all you need to do, though.
Dude, it's gaming.
We're going to give this thing an
Eldritch staff, I think.
I'll check your uh your PR init. Let me
Let me pull his thing,
I guess, and then I can retrain, and
then we'll see.
That way I'll look at yours. That'll be
good cuz then I can look at yours while
this trains.
Okay.
I did There we go.
All right, we got this.
Open source stuff.
I'm going to give you good feedback on
your code, man. You don't have to take
stuff personally. The I like the only
thing I ever get mad about is when
people don't actually bother trying, and
they submit AI-generated slop they don't
understand.
As long as you haven't done that, I will
gladly give you feedback on stuff.
Oh, that or the other one is when you
get experienced like software engineers
from big tech that write just awful
awful over-abstracted stuff, and then
they just insist that this is the way
things are done.
Those are the only two things I've ever
seen where I've just like, all right,
[__] off, man.
Everybody else is just whatever, you
know, you're learning, it's chill, I get
it. It's hard.
Train?
All right, cool, 6 minutes. Let's take a
look at your PR.
All right.
What Why I
Dude, I am not your source for like
popular tech news, all right?
I do real science and stuff around here.
Like
The thing is not like you don't actually
need the answer to that question. You
need to understand that that question is
[__] anyways.
Mhm.
Oh, yeah, this is actually going to be a
cool env, right?
First don't exist, save me, Joseph. All
right.
binding.c
Uh
Anish, please add the config to your PR.
Hey, Elliot.
Got
uh RTX 6
I don't think those are as good for RL,
right? Those are good for a lot of like
if you do stuff with bigger models.
I think for the money the 5090 is still
kick ass.
Well, they're so super overpriced now,
so maybe 4090s are better, but
We have mostly 4090s, and I have one
5090 dev node.
Wait, are you the Elliot that did the um
the crafter environment, or is that a
different Elliot?
The crafter port, I mean.
I have one 5090 and like 20 4090s.
Same Elliot. Hey, man.
If you want to do the If you want to try
to like put that thing to C, let me
know, cuz otherwise I'm just going to
set aside 2 hours at some point, and
I'll just like port it over to C.
I think you can get even faster in C,
and then that would actually be a super
sweet environment to just stick in
puffer.
I think it's literally I looked a little
at the code. I'm pretty sure it's just
like replace all the CUDA math functions
with the C math functions, like update
the RNG stuff, and like a couple other
very small things, and it just works.
And I bet we can get that env training
over 5 mil FPS, not simming 5 mil FPS,
training 5 mil FPS on a 5090.
Dude, give me a couple minutes. I got to
give this guy a quick code review here
on this env.
Reasonable, reasonable.
Yep, you understand the API, good, you
read the docs.
Uh
This is clean.
Okay, yeah, I see you copied from the
template. That's what you should do.
Perf score.
Little extra stuff.
Cool.
client
Uh okay, so this is the one
Mhm. Is your env called client? Usually
we use client for the rendered thing if
you need to allocate extra memory for
rendering, and then the env is not
called client.
Oh, there it is, doctor.
Okay, never mind, I'm dumb. You got it
This is perfectly fine.
Uh yeah, this is perfectly fine. It
probably doesn't need to be a pointer,
but whatever.
RNG, yep, you got the API right. Let me
make sure you got your obs right. Float
obs.
Actions, terminals, good.
Yep, that is correct API.
C init
All right, this here is um
This is probably some cloud crap
because you don't ever need to check
[__] like this, like
I mean, memory allocation fail guard,
seriously?
I always think that this is just like
over the top redundant,
and it litters the code cuz you have to
do it on every single alloc.
And also, please um don't new line your
curly braces.
It wastes so much space.
Same line the curly braces. Those are
nitpicks, though.
Yeah, but this is not nitpick. Look at
this. Look how much longer this function
is with these stupid checks.
But that's minor style stuff.
There's like some mild minor formatting
stuff I'm not a fan of here, but
nothing structurally is wrong yet.
plus equals, good, you read the API
here.
This is all correct.
How's RSM going? It's kicking ass, Jess.
I'm going to show it in a little bit.
We're retrying right here. Oh my [__]
god.
Holy sh Okay, today's going to be a good
day, people. Today's going to be a very
good day.
I cannot wait for this [__] Oh, man,
today's going to be a good day.
Going to review Anish's PR first.
I want to give him the time it deserves.
This is actually like He clearly put
some effort into this.
And so far I have minor format gripes,
but nothing else.
I'm going to teach you one other small
thing for Anish.
Yeah, yeah, Java's the worst language
ever, though, Anish. You got to unlearn.
Basically nothing about Java is useful
in programming. You literally just have
to unlearn that language and everything
about it. Uh I'm going to teach you one
small trick. It's called semantic
spacing, or semantic grouping. I will
always try to group if I can, like
this plus two times this, I'll I'll
delete these two spaces so it's obvious
that the expression is nicely grouped,
right? So this mole is more obvious.
That's like one small thing, but it
makes a huge difference across code
bases.
Um and don't guard your callex for this
type of code. There are applications
where you have to guard your callex if
you're writing an operating system or
some [__] but not here.
Just seg fault.
Uh I think you I actually don't know
what it does, to be fair.
But if you OOM, it'll be pretty obvious
you just OOM, and like it's not worth
littering your code on every single
malloc for that. If you really really
want to do that, then you use an
allocator so that you only have to guard
it once.
Um
but it's just not worth it. It's really
not worth it.
Not a huge fan of
one lining variables, but that's kind of
preference.
I sometimes do it.
Okay, let me see if I can understand
this. So, it's a single player game.
And this is actually kind of clever what
you've done with the obs here. You give
yourself sections. I like this.
So, up to cells.
Okay.
Access seg fault.
That's fine then, coder. If it's seg
fault, it's fine.
Copying stuff from Tetris, took up from
Chung.
Pushing any file. Okay.
So, cells times num obs planes.
Which is going to be three.
That looks fine to me.
I mean, it looks to me like you actually
like you actually have been paying
attention.
Like this is a very very solid first end
finish.
Like so far this is like a nine out of
10 first PR.
This number of attempts is very large.
If you're actually hitting 1,000
attempts,
uh I wouldn't be surprised if this slows
you down quite a bit.
I would I would see this this will
probably show up in a profile. I mean,
you would check this with Gprof.
Don't one line continues like this
either.
Like this I can't stand this [__] Just
don't one line continues. It's like it's
really cuz if you're scanning with the
reason you don't do this is if you're
scanning with your eyes, you don't see
the indent that tells you to read it and
then you don't see that there's a
continue.
Yes, Dr. Mario, Elliot.
This is Anish's first PR.
I'm trying to give him some helpful
feedback both on just like general code
and style, but then also on the RL
portions.
Okay, we mem set the grid. Wait, grid
Is grid an int?
Yes, it is.
Okay, this is fine.
Robin also worked on this both of our
work.
You can add both your names to the
contributor list once we have this
merged. Um based on this so far, Anish,
I have to finish reading it. If there's
nothing terrible though down here, I I
will accept this as is, but I'm going to
ask that you please do a small refactor
PR based on my uh my feedback.
So, I don't have to do it.
Okay, this indexing math is kind of
gross.
It's not terrible. Let me see.
End cap row two.
Oh, okay.
Without fully understanding the way that
you do the capsule collision, I'm
assuming there's probably a better way
to do this chunk.
Not terrible terrible, but there's
probably a better way to do this.
Fine.
Yeah, like these giant or blocks, right?
With like these really like these long
cap underscore row underscore two, these
long names. This is a little bit much.
So, you either find a way to do the
logic cleaner or at the very least you
have like
you know, you just define cap like
like C1 C2 is end cap row one end cap
row two and then you do like a way
shorter so you don't reference it a
million times.
Cuz this thing is the Oh, also when you
do um statements like this, you indent
this an extra row cuz otherwise this
lines up with this.
Uh do do do.
I'm trying to see if there's any RL
stuff I can actually see wrong.
I haven't seen anything yet.
I'll check your rewards after I've done
a quick
perusal.
Or
do while.
Yeah, like this you got to learn the
inverted if statement. So, this would be
uh you know, if end cap colliding down
return and then you just paste this
under.
A couple small things you can learn on
the dev.
I think you might have read his Wait,
what?
Let me check this off screen.
DMs on
Wait, on what?
Where's DMs, Anish?
What's your Discord? I'm not him on
this.
My guy, we need to get you some
confidence. Not not him.
Wait.
Oh, yeah.
I like this funky website font.
I'm sorry for making all this stuff
outdated.
Oh, he did this thing.
Wait, why didn't he PR this?
He did PR it and I didn't [__] merge
it.
Why did I not merge this?
Dude.
Wait, I kind of want this.
I kind of want this end now, man.
All right. Cool.
All right. Yeah, yeah, this is good.
Let's get you your full PR. We can do
both of these merges. If he wants to
update the other end with this, we can
have two ends from you guys.
That'll be nice.
That's like exactly the type of stuff we
want from new contributors. Great way to
learn, useful little environments. Add
stuff to the library. What's going on?
I'm reviewing this PR from Anish. This
is
a port of the Dr. Mario game to see in
the puffer environment reinforcement
learning format. Or rather the puffer
format that makes it easy for us to do
reinforcement learning on it. And I'm
looking through his code giving him some
feedback and then I'm going to try it
out and we're going to train an agent to
play this game and we're going to fix
his bugs.
All right, the line clearing logic is a
little sus, I will say. I see four four
while I'm a little it's a little sus.
But I think I see why you have it this
way.
I could be convinced this is the correct
way to do it, I will say.
I'm not positive.
That seems like a lot.
All right, this definitely isn't. We got
to teach you the inverted if pattern.
Okay, so there's some actual real game
logic here.
Cool.
Lowercase D.
Funny.
See, this is how I know that you did
this manually.
Cuz LLMs don't do this.
I'm glad that you did.
Okay.
It's a good PR. I like this.
And code maybe takes a little bit of a
hit.
Maybe eight eight and a half out of 10,
but it's
I this is still like very very solid
work.
And then let me get the uh I'll let me
figure out your log situation here.
We'll figure out your log situation.
Cool.
You add the config to the PR?
Heterogeneous action head some discrete
some continuous.
Uh rocket, that's because we don't
officially support doing that at the
moment. Um that's kind of a pain in the
ass to support.
I suppose you could do it. We could just
You could add that to puffer four. It
wouldn't be that bad. I don't know your
level of experience.
Uh the easiest thing to do for that
though is to just discretize the
continuous portions or continualize the
discrete portions, but usually just
discretize the continuous ones and then
do everything multi-discrete. It works
amazingly well and uh the continuous
action heads are always sketchier
anyways. Like we have seen a lot more
stable training just out of
multi-discrete and multi-discrete is
slow in most libraries. It's super fast
in puffer. We got custom kernels.
Yes, you did.
Let's see if we have an absolutely
deranged um
config.
Other than that, I'm going to merge this
and like expect uh little fix. All
right, so this is a weird number of
agents.
Uh
This is a tiny policy, Anish. Tiny. One
layer?
One layer is this is what we used in
puffer three. The new architecture is
you stack more of them and they have
fewer parameters per layer.
Legacy gets deleted. I'll do that.
And then you just copied breakout
params. Cool.
I'm going to
Anything else I said?
500 sig reps.
Odd time stamp.
Uh
I Anish can link it.
Anish is literally watching this.
Cool.
Huh?
Interesting.
Did you sweep this thing, Anish, or
where did you get um
presumably you did not sweep this thing,
right?
Didn't sweep, there's your problem.
So that's probably cuz you don't have
hardware.
Probably cost a few dollars to sweep per
sweep on um
Yeah, maybe not. Probably cost like 200
experiment sweep on a 4090 probably cost
what? Like a dollar or two?
With vast.
Those machines kind of suck though.
3080.
And then plus. Yeah, that's just not a
good dev loop, Anish.
You kind of need hardware.
But then 500 million steps is a lot for
this.
>> Yeah.
Wait, where did the config go?
Am I dumb?
I merged it with the config, right?
Oh.
Can you move this thing? You PR'd the
config to ocean.
Config goes in just config.
Mhm.
Okay.
Was there a reason for the 1536?
Yeah, this is not training.
So, that's weird.
18 miliseconds Did you port the crafter
thing?
Isn't Wait, this is the port of crafter.
You just ported it, right?
Awesome. So, Elliot, now get this,
ready?
So, this is how crazy this is. I don't
know if you already did this in your
CUDA port, but the shitty JAX one
it just like continuously puts stuff in
new memory, right? Like cuz every single
op like makes new memory. So, it's
probably very shittily implemented for
CPU where you can have mutable memory
and still 18 million.
See how much easier that is? C wins.
Man, if you get that thing like sorted
and you get like a little training
baseline, I would love a PR of that end.
That end would be an awesome thing for a
PR.
C wins.
Yeah.
But the thing is like you can laugh at
the JAX one, but the guy that wrote that
is probably like, I [__] you not, top
five most capable
um RL PhD student right now.
It's just like
the thing is that the C environments
don't work without all the surrounding
infrastructure. So, like without
PufferLib, you wouldn't be able to do
all this stuff, right? And they have
this whole obnoxious [__] JAX stack
stack because
like that was the hype thing made by
people that don't actually understand
engineering.
And it got to 100,000 steps per second
up from like two.
So, it seemed good.
But it's just not it.
Why would he pick JAX?
Because Elliot, if you like if you look
at the entirety of RL outside of
PufferLib, the CPU libraries train at
like 2,000 steps per second. And then
the JAX libraries get to like 100,000.
So, like it doesn't even occur to them
that they can do C environment plus JAX
training if they really want JAX.
Because then you don't have everything
on the same GPU and the nice same
system, and you have to write your own
fancy multi-threading or vectorization.
Right? Like there are a lot of pieces
that it takes in order to get this whole
C stack to work, but at a high level,
it's obviously the right technical
choice. Like why the hell would you
write a game in JAX?
I mean, you got to keep in mind like the
rest of the people writing ends in
[__] Python.
I initial Why is this seg fault when I
do this?
Why is this seg fault? I have plenty of
RAM.
Ah. You have an op bug in here. You got
memory corruption somehow in ish.
I'll cook to you. Incredibly cooked.
It's not training cuz you're corrupting
memory.
But this is 128.
>> Why did that train through pip install
error? Why did that train?
What pip install error? There wasn't a
pip install error.
Okay, it's still not playing well
though.
Import error.
Uh that message should be deleted Jess.
So where I don't know where that
message, if you saw that thing, but that
should be deleted.
That's no longer Oh, this?
Uh yeah, that should get deleted.
Outdated advice, I think.
What the [__] 3 mil SPS? Yeah, you had
small batch sizes, man, and weird
networks.
4 mil actually.
And that's 4 mil while I'm streaming and
running two RuneScape clients on the
side.
This is better perf, but it's still bad.
Okay, so here's the first really RL
thing for you Anish. Why do we have like
four different reward components when we
don't even have something training?
Assets were given to the Wait.
I couldn't find them in the resources.
How is the game running on my end with
all assets? They are in resources.
They're pre-baked though. So I didn't
ship the source resources
uh out of respect for the creator.
I pre-baked them into a whole bunch of
big combined PNGs.
And if you want to regenerate the
assets, you can use the original
scripts.
Wherever the hell I remember putting
those.
This was the best way I could come up to
distribute them. Um
Cuz I bought a license to the assets for
this project, right?
Done this correctly.
Simply I'm seeing our live stream by T P
T Grad. It's kind of fun, right?
It's like um
I just do my research, I stream it live.
You kind of just get to watch the field
progress, and you get to get involved
with it too, cuz a lot of this stuff is
way more accessible than it used to be.
Most of the environments that we use are
now made by contributors.
It's a great way to get into some
low-level dev.
Great way to learn RL.
And it helps advance the science.
All right, I'm a little sus- I'm a
little suspicious of all these rewards
Anish, but it doesn't insta-solve when I
delete them.
I know that sounds stupid, but you'd be
surprised how often that works.
So I'm going to choose to believe that
you may have done a reasonable job with
these for the time being.
Can I just try a smaller board?
>> Now, there's definitely something wrong.
But it's better than before.
Roadmap for RL research, I got you, man.
I have an article on that. It's my
highest rated piece of content.
I wrote this with Puffer 3, so there's
some more stuff for Puffer 4.
These two. If you're first-year
undergrad, read this one first.
And then keep coming back to this one
every couple months. And then this is
how you get started in RL right now.
Heard you were tearing the env.
Super Mario env help on. Oh, yeah, hi
Robin. Um
No, the env is pretty good, actually.
I had some minor style stuff with it,
but the env is pretty good. I was trying
to figure out why it doesn't train. I
found a major memory corruption bug.
Just the obs size was defined
incorrectly, but it still doesn't train.
It trains a little bit better than
before, but not great.
Here.
Why is this Yeah, we'll do like this.
What article coder? I released a bunch
of articles.
Puffer 4 seems awesome. Thank Thank you.
Puffer 4 was a ton of work.
It was a ton of work. I'm exhausted from
it, honestly. I'm kind of just doing
short streams for the next several days.
And this is my side monitor.
Playing the latest RuneScape league.
I'm chilling.
All right, this is at least slightly
better than before.
But I don't think that this is correct.
I think it's still bugged.
Like I'd expect Puffer to just out of
the box do better than this.
So I don't think this is sweepable yet.
Here. I'll we'll eval it real quick.
It's learned to fill stuff in nicely.
For the most part.
I'd imagine it's like the obs or
something.
Wait.
Floppy bird env. Yes, floppy's like
simplest thing.
Going to solve 5 port self play working
on 4.
We definitely don't want to buy port
stuff into 4.
So I'll want to see some diffs on that.
But cool.
I
close to 5 mil 5 mil SPS after 5 bill.
Okay, that's awesome. Cool.
Yeah, that's good.
Hey, Puffer works. More confirmation.
That's good to hear.
Can I just like play this thing?
No dot C file.
Ah.
All right. Request for you, too.
Add a dot C file like the other one, so
that you can play it and see if the game
actually works the way it's supposed to
be working.
And ideally like print the rewards out
like from from your gameplay.
And just like play it a couple times and
see if it looks right. You'll probably
catch whatever it is doing that. I'm
going to push these fixes for you.
I'll push these fixes.
They are.
You can play it?
Oh, Anish.
You just forgot this file, then.
Create lines that include viruses. It's
a bit less straightforward than Tetris.
Yeah, but have you seen our Tetris
agent?
Our Tetris agent just smokes everything.
You get like a 100K plus score in that
game.
I think with reasonable observations, it
should be quite easy to get it to learn
something decent, at least.
Overwork.
I mean like
I What I would do, my suggestion would
be to just like um
I don't know, maybe simple line clearing
reward or something super basic to start
with.
Cuz I'm suspecting that it's like
something wrong with the dynamics or the
obs or the rewards, like something's
wrong.
I think fundamentally.
Oh yeah, Jess also Spencer added um
Bfloat16 obs and got drive to 4 mil
plus. So
I think we're going to have like big
speedups for everything that uses float
obs soon.
1100 trillion at 5 bill. Yeah, that's
really solid. And 5 mil SPS.
Yeah, that's super solid.
Okay.
I think if that is all for now on that.
Uh if there's anything else I can do on
this end.
25.4 mil SPS.
Training or sim?
Elliot.
25 mil training, you have to set a
really screwy config to get that fast.
I don't think anything trains
productively at 25 mil.
Okay, I would believe 25 mil sim. Yeah,
that sounds right.
See if you can hook it up to the
binding. Like
you should it should be very easy to get
it to train.
Just Elliot here. Assume that you will
not need a custom network until proven
otherwise. Use our default encoder. Just
like default flat encoder. See if it
learns something. Might have to adjust
the obs if things are intended to be one
hot or something.
I don't know. But like just try that.
See if you can get it to learn something
and iterate from there. Because the new
network is so good that like you really
don't need custom encoders for most
things. And at most you need slight
tweaks to
the way observations are defined.
Give that a try.
Looking something with flops. What?
Noted. Yeah.
Uh there literally there are only two
environments. No, I think there's only
one environment now that that needs a
custom encoder.
And I think that that env has some
things with it. Like
we had five or six envs that all needed
custom encoders that now just work
better
without custom encoders.
Here are the dino env.
Yeah, of course, man. I don't know how I
missed that originally.
Um
When did you PR that? Was it Oh, wait. I
think you PR'd it around Christmas,
didn't you?
You might have PR'd that when I was on
vacation.
So I just missed it. But yeah, if you
want to just fix that up to it's a
really quick port up to Puffer 4.
I'd be happy to have that in in Puffer.
It would be nice.
Action masking.
Yeah, action masking's a pain.
We'll do that eventually.
I know, I'm kind of just doing some
short streams for a few days while I am
uh
I'm chilling.
All right, the next thing I want to do
here is we have we've got wave 63 policy
for the inferno right now.
So I want to get this for sure.
>> Apart from recommendations, what do you
want us to fix?
Well, play with the rewards, obviously.
It would be nice if you could get it to,
um,
like I would look for obs or reward bugs
for the most part because
like if you just play it
and the rewards look reasonable, then
it's probably an obs bug.
Because you should be able to at least
get it to clear some lines pretty
easily.
If you see the reward getting to like
even a few lines, then it's probably
sweepable from there. But I I'd be
surprised if it's sweepable just yet. I
think there's probably something
fundamentally wrong.
So, I mean, do those cleanups, spend a
little time looking for it. If you can't
find it, then send the cleanup version,
the cleaned up version, and I'll spend
some more time looking at it for you.
Want to take a look at our brand new
policy here.
Okay, this is supposed to be a model
that gets to wave 63.
Uh, I could not get to wave 63 with this
inventory, so this model is better at
the game than I am.
I mean, it likes to move around a bunch,
but like that's not really an issue.
It actually has some of the speed run
tax.
It's flicking its gear all the time.
Sweet.
Okay, I think what we do is we rerun a
sweep
now that we have these fixes.
It definitely needs more bastion potions
as well.
All right, here's what we're going to
do. I'm going to set up a new sweep
and we'll see what we do after this cuz
I don't have more on the agenda. So,
maybe I will go back to Mario or maybe
I'll go back to some other stuff.
Sorted ifs.
Yeah.
Otherwise, you get the like, you know,
the Kamehameha code pattern.
Just like super deep indents.
Drop out technique.
Uh, it's a lot less I don't know if you
would get anything, but it's a lot less
relevant in RL because you have
unlimited ground truth data.
It's not like supervised learning where
you're like, uh, worried about
overfitting a small data set, running a
bunch of epochs on it.
Wait, wave 68?
Oh, hang on.
Yeah, that's not going to be it.
35 start wave.
There.
>> Wave 34.
That's not good.
Oh, okay. That's fine. That's a shitty
config.
We're good.
Boom.
Yeah.
Um
So, I don't In theory, yes, Jess. I
don't see why it would help here.
Entropy is
it is kind of our noise method in RL.
It's really weak though. It's like
really weak.
Every time you reward it.
Backprop is done over segments. So, you
collect like 64 steps of experience.
We'll cross a ton of ends.
And then you back propagate across the
segment.
Every time.
Okay, but we can actually just watch
this model for a bit while I think of
anything. If there's anything else to do
folks. I don't know if Elliot, if you're
still here, if you've got crafter port
about ready.
Um I'd be happy to merge that in.
Uh Anish, if you have any thoughts on
the Mario end, but I don't know if
you've been fiddling with that.
Lots of stuff I can do.
Not for too long here, but I can be
around for a little bit.
I'm here.
Anything train reasonably or still take
a while to port the uh binding?
That an area.
Uh yeah, popper five is about
exploration, but there are many dumb
ways to go about that and we're trying
to go about it a smart way.
Yeah, so this is still
This is not backwards, right?
Oh.
I see the problem.
Well, this is fixed at least.
Yeah.
Pretty much, Jess.
The thing that's a a little concerning
to me is I still really don't have
motivation to go train.
Like I always have motivation to train
and I'm still like I don't feel like
going out and running and stuff.
Okay, I think this is just wrong, right?
I copy this.
Oh.
>> the panning is wrong somehow.
Yeah, this is not correct, right?
We have forward vex.
Might be initial, we'll see.
Why would you ever use croc?
It's a basic ass question, man.
It tends to not like think for 5 minutes
before to spitting out an answer,
which is nice.
Um
and I'm sick of giving him throw up
money, so I'm not really using flood at
the moment.
I just don't know the math off the top
of my head for um
forward vac.
There's probably a raylib function for
it, maybe.
I mean, this is correct though. You need
to do This needs to be done on the
forward vac.
Loss functions exist.
I mean, often the whole objective is
described as the loss function, so
there's an objective, sure.
It's a different one from the one that's
normally used in supervised learning
or for many of the ones that are
normally used.
I'm going to see if this works and if
it's not, I'm not going to mess with
this anymore.
Oh, yeah.
That's correct.
Let's make sure it didn't break human
mode.
Go.
That's camera's fixed.
Connects more factors of sugar.
Yeah.
The America problem as well.
>> All right, I'm going to try one stupid
thing for the hell of it.
It's all one average case, you dumb
[__]
I guess it is Is it implementation
dependent? It kind of is.
Hey, that works.
But you don't go on Twitter.
Why is there no perf?
Aw, dude, you deleted my perf metric.
All right, we're going to have to re-
fix that.
series or videos to watch
Uh, no, it's not a good thing to learn
by watching stuff other than like
You can ask stuff here, but there's not
really just like, "Oh, watch this video
series, now you learn RL." You have to
do it.
Go work through my article and write a
couple of ends.
There.
We will let this run.
We got our new sweep loaded up.
Should be good.
Yeah, that's obscene.
That's absolutely obscene.
All right, cool.
You see start 26. Yeah.
The RAM thing is really [__]
I don't know. The uh
The coolest thing I've ever had happen
on X Elliot is um
So, this my default programming guide,
not the RL one, but the general
programming one, got uh endorsed by
Carmack.
So, I was pretty happy with that. That
was really cool.
So, this is
I don't take my word for it, right? This
should be some good advice for general
stuff.
I think that this isn't too ridiculous
to ask people to do too early.
This is like you can do the first chunk
of this in maybe 200 lines of C.
Very, very simple C.
Yeah.
The thing is the programming in ML
The thing with this guide, the most
important piece of advice in here, so
yeah, there's a lot of good stuff for
programming that'll save you a bunch of
time, but actually the thing that's the
most important in here is this chunk
here
about like not trusting science and just
like dramatically lowering your
expectations on the quality of published
science when you're reading work.
Like I swear nothing will make sense in
a research until you understand this.
You'll just kind of go in circles.
Cuz it's like, how is it possible that
there are these three published papers
at NeurIPS this year and they have
entirely contradictory results?
Well, it's because two were I two or
probably three of them are wrong.
Carmack.
Uh anish because he did real, real
programming, like real high-performance
graphics programming
back when uh there weren't GPUs
and the CPUs were really slow
and software rendering actually had to
be optimized a ton in order to work at
all.
And he came up with a bunch of the
techniques for doing that that powered
um
essentially powered the modern game
revolution.
So,
yeah.
I mean, he's done a lot of awesome
stuff.
They're the issue, not you. Yeah.
That's the problem.
Human in software. Yeah, exactly.
Sounds.
Oh, let me see, Elliot.
I'll take a quick look.
And then uh
probably end stream relatively soon if
there's not anything else to do today.
Good progress, couple of little things.
Unless you've got that end ready.
Yeah, this is true.
I did a lot of similar stuff with this
with RL.
So,
if you can get into a top lab
and you would feel way, way more
comfortable with a couple million bucks
in the bank
then it can be reasonable. Otherwise, I
think that's kind of the only reason to
do that.
Yeah, so this will be very, very
uncertain
and
not particularly easy. Good way to learn
stuff. Good way to do a bunch of cool
things.
Not for everyone.
Doesn't pay. Yeah, education I think is
not really a good thing.
It's a nice way to have like
I think this is a nice way to build a
brand
for other stuff you do.
But that's about it.
Yeah, exactly.
If you find something that's not
[__] yep.
There's some good stuff here.
I don't know. If you just want to work a
ton on stuff like
some of the stuff X is doing is very
cool, especially around infra.
The problem is they keep like putting
It's good because they get a lot of
newer, really passionate people, but
sometimes they get people that are just
[__] wrong making architecture
decisions
as a result.
I also don't know the extent to which we
do need to just scale a bajillion GPUs
in order to solve everything. I actually
think that that is fundamentally a
question.
Yeah.
This is often fixed by staying very,
very physically fit especially when
things are not working very well.
It sounds simple. It actually does work.
Like, oh, like I'm already doing too
much stuff on my work. I should also go
spend 20 hours a week training for a
marathon. Yes, yes, you actually should.
You can definitely travel while building
your own thing if you want to do that.
Thing is there is
there is still a ton to learn.
There's still tons and tons of stuff to
learn, I guarantee you.
Yeah, I'm in a pretty nice position
because the traditional credentials make
it easier on the brand side.
Like it's a little easier to just spin
up the consulting types things that I
do.
Um
and I spend very, very little of my time
on the business side and it still does
fine, still does well enough.
And I could probably quite easily scale
that up if I wanted to as well, but I'm
more interested in the science side
stuff at the moment.
Um
Yeah, it's a tough spot to be in, to be
honest with you. It's a very tough spot
to be in.
See, the thing with this thing is like
I'm nowhere near as negative on
like X and a lot of Elon stuff as most
people are
because they are genuinely doing this.
But then sometimes they say that they're
doing this to get people excited and
it's kind of just whatever.
Like Grok is kind of just whatever.
You know, a lot of the xAI stuff is kind
of
whatever.
Um
SpaceX is awesome, for sure.
Tesla has some cool stuff.
I have no idea what the hell they're
doing with Optimus if that will end up
being anything.
So, it's kind of whether you want your
own one do you want your own class do
you want somebody to just give you one?
Is really what it comes down to.
I mean, I think generally doing cool
stuff, learning things, monetizing stuff
where you can and it makes sense, and
then staying open to stuff is a
reasonable thing for you.
I mean, I've gotten tons of offers um
just doing what I'm doing
and I'm not looking for them, right?
I'm very happy just doing Puffer.
I think it's a lot more important that I
do this than I do anything else.
Cuz it fixes an entire branch of science
that will just otherwise not be fixed.
I will say though that if you like
The Frontier Labs used to be so much
better is the annoying thing.
I guess you could look at DeepMind, like
DeepMind and not Gemini team.
But, I don't know whether they treat
their engineers with the appropriate
respect. It's very science dominant and
they really don't do a great job of
leveraging their engineering at least on
some of the teams. It's probably team
dependent.
But, they're actually there are some
there are some things that I've seen
that have really good engineering
integration.
So, I guess that's the one thing I would
look at. There are also a couple other
companies. Depends on your interests. I
mean, for my stuff there's a lot of like
AI biotech stuff coming out now
and I don't know how much of it is we're
just calling LLMs in the loop versus
not, but there are some that are
definitely cooler than that like
like your one DeepMind spin-off is
Isomorphic. Isomorphic is doing cool
stuff.
So, I mean, there are a few places out
there doing cool things.
And doing the stuff you're doing makes
it a hell of a lot easier to get to
those places, I will say.
Cuz like look at this, you're building
yourself a nice
like following, people know your work.
Makes it much easier, right?
I mean, I think you're doing good stuff
and like
mostly you have to not drive yourself
crazy, right? Like work hard, but stay
healthy
and don't drive yourself crazy.
And things come to you.
You're 22, you got plenty of time.
I think you're doing plenty of cool
[__]
Thanks, man. Yeah.
I mean, I will tell you Elliot like I'm
doing pretty well now, but I have not
enjoyed a lot of my time like grinding
research and learning all the stuff I
learned. Like many, many years have just
not been fun at all and have been way
less productive than they can be as a
result.
Um
I think probably the biggest mistake I
made was like I got away with not really
working out and like you get away with
it in your early 20s, but then you kind
of just don't start doing it quick
enough and it like
catches up to you.
I started at like 23 or 24.
That's a good one.
That's a really good stress killer.
Like go run 2 hours, that's a really
good stress killer.
And I know it's difficult, but like
try not to spend too much time on X
other than like making your content.
Reading it more as a write-only platform
is better cuz just scrolling the
timeline of course you drive yourself
crazy.
I would definitely keep your eyes open
though for if anything if anything that
you build
ends up having like a direct-to-consumer
startup around it like you say, "Oh, I
could just wrap this and sell this and
not need any investor money and just see
if people buy it." Like that's probably
a nice thing to do cuz you never know.
Maybe that just solves that whole
problem.
15k
with the actual runners, no warm-up.
Had when I sat down.
Okay, when you go super, super hard
you're not supposed to have a crazy
productive day after that. You're
supposed to be spent.
15k is what?
Oh, that's like 9 miles, 10 miles.
Uh
I don't know. I like right I also it's
taken me a while to accept that for me
personally
I'll get a couple months of very high
productive work
where I have lots of motivation and then
I burn myself out. And if I just don't
take a break and sometimes it has to be
a couple weeks. If I just don't take a
break, I'll kind of just be spinning my
wheels at low productivity making myself
miserable.
Which is why now I'm doing, you know, a
2-3 hour stream and then I'm going back
to playing RuneScape all day and lifting
weights and that's all I'm doing. And
I'm going to do that until I have the
drive back because I'm still fried from
Puffer 4.
You know, Puffer 4 was 8 months with a
couple very short breaks in the middle,
but for the most part just 8 months of
crazy grind. Of course you're going to
be tired.
Great stream make a PR. Yeah, I actually
that end will be very nice for Puffer.
I've wanted that one for a while. I just
never wanted to bother porting it. Bunch
of work.
Um
Hopefully the renderer is there.
Hopefully.
I'll see what it looks like when you PR
it though. Thank you for that.
I think that's probably the best general
advice I can get for you.
Man, at 22 like in your position
I think that in your position there are
a few job offers that I would take
and like go do it for a couple years, a
year or two and see how I like it.
Like um
like an R engine at DeepMind for
instance would probably be a pretty cool
thing to do.
Uh like Isomorphic maybe. You like there
are a few like other smaller companies
that are doing really cool AI stuff
that's end heavy.
That would be probably pretty nice and
then you just like have that.
Um
But, other than that I think like the
big general companies you'd probably be
really bored.
It kind of depends what lab sounds.
Feel education and brand.
Oh, congrats, man. Then you're good.
Then you're good for a bit.
Then enjoy doing what you do, right?
That's fun.
Like the contracts that I do with Puffer
they're good, but they're comparably
probably quite low compared to what I
would do with um I'd be getting at a
lab.
But, they're a relatively small portion
of the work that I do.
Um
and it's pretty cool to be able to crank
out like real RL results on real
problems and lets me improve Puffer.
You know, it lets me improve Puffer
based on seeing new problems and seeing
new cases for that.
And it builds out the Puffer brand and
you know, lots of things like that. So,
it's a nice dovetail.
Um so, it doesn't always have to be oh
the Frontier lab or whatever cuz like
I think that you'd be surprised if you
went to like Anthropic or Open AI how
dumb a lot of the people are.
Open AI was really good in 2019, but you
don't hire a thousand people and
preserve talent density. Nobody does
that.
Like they might know a bunch of stuff
that you don't know because they've been
doing it for 10 or 20 years, but like
you'd be surprised how just really
really dumb some of the people are.
And this [__]
That's new.
What? You expected that everybody at
those labs is just a genius?
Dude, you can go to any university in
the world, including like the top 10
ones. You can go to random labs and
you'll find a lot of people where it's
like
Huh, these people are just really really
stupid.
You know, maybe they're really good at
something.
But then there's a lot of things where
it's like, eh?
The JAX thing is a great example,
actually. The you know, the JAX
environments, like the fact that like
the better RL labs are now at the moment
doing all their stuff in awful awful
like JAX simulation code because they
couldn't figure out anything that wasn't
Python.
Like
huh?
And then they take like years to develop
anything because of it. Like, eh?
You
you think the stuff's being done
competent. It just isn't.
You know?
Anyways.
I think that's it for me for the time
being.
I think I'm going to call it. I think
we're just going to I'll take one quick
look to make sure this worked.
Cool.
This runs.
We will let this go
and we will see what this produces for
us.
And I'll probably do
Oh, tomorrow's Saturday? Yeah, probably
do short stream tomorrow. We'll see.
All right.
See you all. I'm going to call it. Star
puffer on GitHub if you haven't already.
Folks, it really does help me. It's
free. Feed this puffer a star.
And we'll have a whole bunch of new
environments up soon. You can play with
this Constellation dashboard right in
your browser if you want. Here, it's all
interactive and fast.
Um